                            ICE 2025                             
           18th Interaction and Concurrency Experience           
                  June 20, 2025, Lille, France                   
               Satellite workshop of DisCoTec 2025               
                                                                 
           https://www.discotec.org/2025/satellite/ice           
                 https://ice-workshop.github.io/                 
                                                                 
                        Submission link:                         
                    https://ice25.hotcrp.com/                    

The Interaction and Concurrency Experience (ICE) series of
international scientific meetings are a forum for computer science
researchers with research interests in models, verification, tools,
and programming primitives for complex interactions.

=== HIGHLIGHTS ===

    * Distinctive selection procedure
    * ICE welcomes full papers to be included in the proceedings
    * ICE also welcomes oral communications of already published or
      preliminary work
    * Invited speaker: Kirstin Peters
    * Publication in EPTCS
    * Special issue in the Journal of Logical and Algebraic Methods in
      Programming (Elsevier) (to be confirmed)

=== IMPORTANT DATES ===

    - April 9th, 2025            : Paper submission deadline
    - April 10th -- April 28th   : Forum interaction, reviews, and PC discussion
    - May 5th                    : Notification to authors
    - June 20th                  : Workshop in Lille, France
    - July 20th (tentative)      : Camera-ready for post-proceedings
    - October 2025 (tentative)   : Invitation to special issue

All dates are in the anywhere on Earth time zone.


=== SCOPE ===

The general scope of the workshop is interaction and concurrency,
broadly construed. The workshop welcomes contributions spanning the
spectrum from theoretical models to practical implementations and
empirical studies. Topics of interest include (but are not limited
to):

    * Formal semantics
    * Process algebras and calculi
    * Models and languages
    * Protocols
    * Logics and types
    * Expressiveness
    * Model transformations
    * Tools, implementations, and experiments
    * Specification and verification
    * Coinductive techniques
    * Tools and techniques for automation
    * Synthesis techniques

Prospective authors are welcome to contact the chairs for advice on
whether their proposed submission is in scope.

=== SELECTION PROCEDURE ===

Since its first edition in 2008, the distinguishing feature of ICE has
been an innovative paper selection mechanism based on an interactive,
friendly, and constructive discussion amongst authors and PC members
in an online forum.

During the review phase, each submission is published in a dedicated
discussion forum. The discussion forum can be accessed by the authors
of the submission and by all PC members not in conflict with the
submission (the forum preserves anonymity). The forum is used by
reviewers to ask questions, clarifications, and modifications from the
authors, allowing them better to explain and to improve all aspects of
their submission. The evaluation of the submission will take into
account not only the reviews, but also the outcome of the discussion.

As witnessed by the past editions of ICE, this procedure considerably
improves the accuracy of the reviews, the fairness of the selection,
the quality of camera-ready papers, and the discussion during the
workshop.

ICE adopts a light double-anonymous reviewing process, detailed below.


=== SUBMISSION GUIDELINES ===

Submissions must be made electronically in PDF format via hotcrp:

    https://ice25.hotcrp.com/

We invite two types of submissions:

    * Research papers: original contributions that will be published
      in the workshop post-proceedings. Research papers must not be
      simultaneously submitted to other conferences or workshops with
      refereed proceedings. Research papers should be 3-16 pages
      (references not included). Short research papers are
      welcome; for example a 5 page short paper fits this category
      perfectly. The submitted PDF can use any LaTeX style (but the
      post-proceedings will use the EPTCS style).

    * Oral communications: will be presented at the workshop, but will
      not appear in the post-proceedings. This type of contribution
      includes e.g., previously published contributions, preliminary
      work, and position papers. There is no strict page limit for
      this kind of submission but papers of 1-5 pages would be
      appreciated. For example, a one page summary of previously
      published work is welcome in this category.

Authors of research papers must omit their names and institutions from
the title page, they should refer to their other work in the third
person and omit acknowledgements that could reveal their identity or
affiliation. The purpose is to avoid any bias based on authors’
identity characteristics, such as gender, seniority, or nationality,
in the review process. Our goal is to facilitate an unbiased approach
to reviewing by supporting reviewers’ access to works that do not
carry obvious references to the authors’ identities. As mentioned
above, this is a lightweight double-anonymous process. Anonymization
should not be a heavy burden for authors, and should not make papers
weaker or more difficult to review. Advertising the paper on alternate
forums (e.g., on a personal web-page, pre-print archive, email, talks,
discussions with colleagues) is permitted.

Papers in the “Oral communications” category need not be
anonymized. For any questions concerning the double anonymous process,
feel free to consult the ICEcreamers.

We are keen to enhance the balanced, inclusive and diverse nature of
the ICE community, and would particularly encourage female colleagues
and members of other underrepresented groups to submit their work.

Submission by PC members (apart from the ICEcreamers) is allowed and encouraged.

=== PUBLICATIONS ===

Accepted research papers and communications must be presented at the
workshop by one of the authors.

Accepted research papers will be published after the workshop in
Electronic Proceedings in Theoretical Computer Science.

We plan to invite authors of selected papers and brief announcements
to submit their work in a special issue in the Journal of Logical and
Algebraic Methods in Programming (Elsevier). Such contributions will
be peer-reviewed according to the standard journal policy, but they
will be handled in a shorter time than regular submissions. A list of
published and in preparation special issues of previous ICE editions
is reported on the ICE website.

=== INVITED SPEAKER ===

Kirstin Peters (Augsburg University, Germany)

=== ICECREAMERS (PC co-chairs) ===

    * Clément Aubert (Augusta University, 🇺🇸) - aubert@math.cnrs.fr
    * Cinzia Di Giusto (Université Côte d’Azur, CNRS, 🇫🇷) - 
cinzia.di-giusto@unice.fr
    * Simon Fowler (University of Glasgow, 🇬🇧) - simon.fowler@glasgow.ac.uk
    * Violet Ka I Pun (Western Norway University of Applied Sciences, 🇳🇴) - 
Violet.Ka.I.Pun@hvl.no

Use ice@framalistes.org to reach all the ICEcreamers at once.
    

=== PROGRAM COMMITTEE ===

    * Franco Barbanera (Dept. of Mathematics and Computer Science - University of Catania, 🇮🇹)
    * Manel Barkallah (University of Namur, 🇧🇪)
    * Matteo Cimini (University of Massachusetts Lowell, 🇺🇸)
    * Farzaneh Derakhshan (Illinois Tech, 🇺🇸)
    * Emanuele D’Osualdo (University of Konstanz, 🇩🇪)
    * Luc Edixhoven (University of Southern Denmark, 🇩🇰)
    * Lorenzo Gheri (University of Liverpool, 🇬🇧)
    * Lucie Guillou (IRIF, Université Paris Cité, 🇫🇷)
    * Ping Hou (University of Oxford, 🇬🇧)
    * Andrew K. Hirsch (University at Buffalo, SUNY, 🇺🇸)
    * Jonas Kastberg Hinrichsen (IT University of Copenhagen, 🇩🇰)
    * Matthew Alan Le Brun (University of Glasgow, 🇬🇧)
    * Andreia Mordido (LASIGE, University of Lisbon, 🇵🇹)
    * Maurizio Murgia (Gran Sasso Science Institute, 🇮🇹)
    * Jonah Pears (University of Kent, 🇬🇧)
    * Felix Stutz (University of Luxembourg, 🇱🇺)
    * Petra van den Bos (Formal Methods and Tools group (FMT), University of Twente, 🇳🇱)
    * Bas van den Heuvel (HKA Karlsruhe and University of Freiburg, 🇩🇪)

=== STEERING COMMITTEE ===

    * Massimo Bartoletti (University of Cagliari, 🇮🇹)
    * Ludovic Henrio (ENS Lyon, 🇫🇷)
    * Sophia Knight (University of Minnesota Duluth, 🇺🇸)
    * Ivan Lanese (University of Bologna, 🇮🇹)
    * Larisa Safina (INRIA Lille, 🇫🇷)
    * Alceste Scalas (Technical University of Denmark, 🇩🇰)

=== PREVIOUS EDITIONS ===

Please refer to https://ice-workshop.github.io/#previous-editions

=== MORE INFORMATION ===

For additional information, please contact the ICEcreamers at

    ice@framalistes.org

or visit our series website

    https://ice-workshop.github.io/

or the 2025 ICE website

    https://www.discotec.org/2025/satellite/ice
